---
id: key_concepts
title: Key Concepts
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Key concepts

Buck2 has a number of fundamental concepts:

- A [**_build rule_**](build_rule.md) describes how to produce an output file
  from a set of input files. Most build rules are specific to a particular
  language or platform. For example, you would use the
  [`cxx_binary`](../../api/rules/#cxx_binary) rule to create a C++ binary, but
  you would use the [`android_binary`](../../api/rules/#android_binary) rule to
  create an Android APK.
- A [**_build target_**](build_target.md) is a string that uniquely identifies a
  build rule. It can be thought of as a URI for the build rule within the Buck2
  project.
- A [**_build file_**](build_rule.md) defines one or more build rules. In Buck2,
  build files are typically named `BUCK`. A `BUCK` file is analogous to the
  `Makefile` used by the Make utility. In your project, you will usually have a
  separate `BUCK` file for each buildable unit of software—such as a binary or
  library. For large projects, you could have hundreds of `BUCK` files.

A Buck2 **_package_** comprises of: a Buck2 build file (a `BUCK` file), all
files—such as source files and headers—in the same directory as the `BUCK` file
or in subdirectories, provided those subdirectories do not themselves contain a
`BUCK` file. To say it another way, a `BUCK` file defines the root of a package,
but Buck2 packages might not include all their subdirectories because Buck2
packages do not overlap or contain other Buck2 packages. For example, in the
following diagram, the BUCK file in directory `app-dir-1` defines that directory
as the root of a package—which is labeled **Package A** in the diagram. The
directory `app-dir-2` is part of Package A because it is a subdirectory of
`app-dir-1`, but does not itself contain a BUCK file. Now, consider directory
`app-dir-3`. Because `app-dir-3` contains a BUCK file it is the root of a new
package (**Package B**). Although `app-dir-3` is a subdirectory of `app-dir-1`,
it is _not_ part of Package A. Buck2 has the concept of a **_cell_**, which
defines a directory tree of one or more Buck2 packages. A Buck2 build could
involve multiple cells. Cells often correspond to repositories, but this isn't
required. The root of a Buck2 cell contains a global configuration file called
[**`.buckconfig`**](buckconfig.md). Note that although the cell root should
contain a `.buckconfig`, the presence of a `.buckconfig` file doesn't in itself
define a cell. Rather, _the cells involved in a build are defined at the time
Buck2 is invoked_; they are specified in the `.buckconfig` for the Buck2
_project_ (see below). A Buck2 **_project_** is defined by the `.buckconfig`
where Buck2 is invoked, or if that directory doesn't contain a `.buckconfig`,
the project is defined by the `.buckconfig` in the nearest ancestor directory.
The `.buckconfig` for the project specifies the cells that constitute the Buck2
project. Specifically, these cells are specified in the
[repositories](buckconfig.md#repositories) section of the `.buckconfig`. Note
that the directory tree rooted at this `.buckconfig` is automatically considered
a cell by Buck2; in other words, the project's `.buckconfig` doesn't need to
specify the project cell explicitly—although it is a good practice to do so.

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/packages-1.png')} alt='justifyContent'/>

### Buck2's dependency graph

Every build rule can have zero or more dependencies. You can specify these
dependencies using, for example, the `deps` argument to the build rule. For more
information about specifying dependencies, consult the reference page for the
build rule you are using. These dependencies form a directed graph, called the
_target graph_. Buck2 requires the graph to be acyclic. When building the output
of a build rule, all of the rule's transitive dependencies are built first. This
means that the graph is built in a "bottom-up" fashion. A build rule knows only
which rules it depends on, not which rules depend on it. This makes the graph
easier to reason about and enables Buck2 to identify independent subgraphs that
can be built in parallel. It also enables Buck2 to determine the minimal set of
build targets that need to be rebuilt.

### Multiple Buck2 projects in a single repository

Buck2 is designed to build multiple deliverables from a single repository—that
is, a _monorepo_—rather than from multiple repositories. Support for the
monorepo design motivated Buck2's support for cells and projects. It is
Facebook's experience that maintaining all dependencies in the same repository
makes it easier to ensure that all developers have the correct version of the
code and simplifies the process of making atomic commits.

### See also

Take a look at the [Concept Map](concept_map.md) for a visualization of how
Buck2 concepts interact with each other. Also see the [Glossary](glossary.md).
