docs/rule_authors/string_parameter_macros.md, before:

---
id: string_parameter_macros
title: String parameter macros
---

# String parameter macros

Many rule attributes (the ones with type `attrs.arg`) support expanding
references to other rules using a mechanism called string parameter macros. All
expanded build rules are automatically added as dependencies.

Note that the paths returned by these macros are _relative_ paths. Using
relative paths ensures that your builds are _hermetic_, that is, they are
reproducible across different machine environments.

## `$(location //path/to:target)`

Expands to the location of the output of the specified build rule. This means
that you can refer to the output without needing to be aware of how Buck is
storing data on the disk mid-build.

For example:

```python
cxx_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["main.cpp"],
    preprocessor_flags = ["-DTEST_DIR=$(location :test_dir)"],
)

filegroup(
    name = "test_dir",
    srcs = [
        "test_files/foo.json",
        "test_files/bar.toml",
    ],
)
```

## `$(location_exec //path/to:target)`

Identical to `$(location //path/to:target)`, but the configuration is
transitioned to the execution platform. This can be useful when using `genrule`
to wrap another build system with buck.

## `$(source relative/path/to/source)`

Expands to the location of the specified source. The difference with using
`$(location path/to:export_file_target)` is that the path points to the file in
the source tree, rather than a copy or symlink in `buck-out`.

For example:

```python
cxx_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["main.cpp"],
    preprocessor_flags = ["-DMY_SOURCE_FILE=$(source path/to/my_source_file)"],
)
```

## `$(exe //path/to:target)`

Expands a build rule that results in an executable to the commands necessary to
run that executable as part of the build.

For example, a `java_binary()` might expand to a call to
`java -jar path/to/target.jar`. Files that are executable (perhaps generated by
a `genrule()`) are also expanded.

If the build rule does not generate an executable output, then an exception is
thrown and the build breaks.

If the `$(exe my_dependency)` dependency should actually be built with the
target platform, use `$(exe_target my_dependency)` instead, which will stick to
the same platform as the target.

## `$(exe_target //path/to:target)`

Identical to `$(exe //path/to:target)`, except that the target is built using
the target platform, rather than the execution platform.

This is for example useful to get the paths to executables to be run as part of
tests. For example:

```python
sh_test(
    name = "my_test",
    args = [
        "$(exe_target //path/to:target_to_test)",
    ],
    # `my_test.sh` takes a single argument, which is the path to an executable
    # to test.
    test = "my_test.sh",
    visibility = ["//risk/tap_enricher/..."],
)
```

## `$(query_targets queryfunction(//path/to:target))`

Runs a query on the given target and replaces the macro with the matching
targets.

For example:

```python
my_rule(
    name = "example",
    # Will be replaced by all dependencies of `some_target`.
    foo = "$(query_targets deps(:some_target))"
)
```

## `$(query_outputs queryfunction(//path/to:target))`

Runs a query on the given target and replaces the macro with the outputs of the
matching targets.

For example:

```python
my_rule(
    name = "example",
    # Will be replaced by the outputs of all dependencies of `some_target`.
    foo = "$(query_outputs deps(:some_target))"
)
```

## `$(query_targets_and_outputs [separator] queryfunction(//path/to:target))`

Runs a query on the given target and replaces the macro with matching targets
and their outputs, which are separated by an optional `separator` (defaults to a
space).

For example:

```python
my_rule(
    name = "example",
    # Will be replaced by the space-separated dependencies of `some_target`, as
    # well as their outputs.
    foo = "$(query_targets_and_outputs deps(:some_target))"
)
```

## `$(classpath //path/to:target)`

Expands to the transitive classpath of the specified build rule, provided that
the rule has a Java classpath. If the rule does not have (or contribute to) a
classpath, then an exception is thrown and the build breaks. It takes an
optional second argument to limit the depth of the traversal, but only a depth
of 1 is currently supported. Its behavior is similar to the corresponding
operation in the `buck audit` command.

## `$(location //path/to:target[output])`

Expands to the named output file or directory of the given target, for rules
that expose supplementary outputs.

## How to manage long expanded values

In some cases, the results of the expanded macro might be so long that they
exceed a limit in your operating environment. For example, if you use the
results of an expanded macro in Bash, it could exceed Bash's command-line
limits.

To work around these limits, prefix the macro name with the `@` character. Buck
then writes the results of the expanded macro to a temporary file and replaces
the macro with the path to that file _while keeping the `@` prefix_. For
example:

```sh
$(@query_targets_and_outputs //...)
```

expands to something similar to:

```sh
@/tmp/tempfile
```

Many applications recognize the `@` prefix to mean: _read the contents of this
file to obtain the necessary arguments_.

## How to prevent expansion

If you need to prevent expansion of a string parameter macro, prefix the macro
with a backslash.

```sh
\$(dirname ...)
```

For example, the following rule passes the `dirname` command to the shell to
execute in a subshell; `dirname` is a Unix/Linux command-line utility that
returns the directory of a specified file. We need to use an escape because the
syntax for subshells is the same as the syntax for string parameter macros:

```python
genrule(
  name = 'gen',
  out  = 'out.txt',
  cmd  = 'cp $SRCS \$(dirname $OUT)',
  srcs = [
    'test1.txt',
    'test2.txt',
  ],
)
```

## Query functions

The `query_*` macros accept a quoted query expression which supports the
following query functions:

- `attrfilter`
- `attrregexfilter`
- `deps`
- `except` (set-difference)
- `filter`
- `intersect`
- `kind`
- `rdeps`
- `set`
- `union`

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

- **When are macros evaluated?** Macros are evaluated before the command is
  passed to the shell for execution. You can think of them as simple string
  replacements.
- **Can macros be nested?** Macros cannot be nested. If you need to run an
  additional macro on the output of a previous macro, create a nested `genrule`
  definition and use the `$(location)` macro to read the output of the previous
  macro.
- **Are parentheses okay inside a macro?** Inside a macro, parentheses must be
  balanced. Parentheses which are part of a quoted string are ignored.
- **Is white space okay inside a macro?** Macro arguments are white space
  separated, so arguments which contain white space must be quoted.
- **Are nested quotes allowed?** A single level of nested quotes is allowed,
  such as `"My name is 'Buck'."` or `'My name is "Buck".'`. Note that when you
  use a macro in a BUCK file, you must ensure that quotes are properly escaped,
  so that the shell command that uses the macro forms a proper string.

## Extended Backus-Naur form

The Extended Backus-Naur form (EBNF) grammar for a macro is as follows:

```python
macro = "$(", macro_name, whitespace, [arg_list], ")";
macro_name = {all_ascii_chars - whitespace - parens};
whitespace = "\t" | "\n" | " " | "\r";
parens = "(" | ")";
arg_list = arg | arg, whitespace, arg_list;
arg = {all_ascii_chars - whitespace - parens}
      | "(", arg, ")"
      | "\"", [{-"\""}], "\""
      | "'", [{-"'"}], "'";
```

Commit message:

Improve documentation about build configuration (#1191)
Summary:
This commit rearranges existing documentation and adds more explanation, including a comprehensive overview of the various parts (platforms, modifiers and transitions), and how they are relevant for end users.

In particular, a lot of information was moved from `rule_authors/` to `concepts/`, as build configuration is important for end users.

A lot of information was also deduplicated across pages.

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/facebook/buck2/pull/1191

Reviewed By: Nero5023

Differential Revision: D89872976

Pulled By: scottcao

fbshipit-source-id: 672bc2560efdfa2100309912899732ac0c5ef24c

docs/rule_authors/string_parameter_macros.md, after:

---
id: string_parameter_macros
title: String parameter macros
---

# String parameter macros

Many rule attributes (the ones with type `attrs.arg`) support expanding
references to other rules using a mechanism called string parameter macros. All
expanded build rules are automatically added as dependencies.

Note that the paths returned by these macros are _relative_ paths. Using
relative paths ensures that your builds are _hermetic_, that is, they are
reproducible across different machine environments.

## `$(location //path/to:target)`

Expands to the location of the output of the specified build rule. This means
that you can refer to the output without needing to be aware of how Buck is
storing data on the disk mid-build.

For example:

```python
cxx_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["main.cpp"],
    preprocessor_flags = ["-DTEST_DIR=$(location :test_dir)"],
)

filegroup(
    name = "test_dir",
    srcs = [
        "test_files/foo.json",
        "test_files/bar.toml",
    ],
)
```

The target being referenced must expose a `DefaultInfo` (i.e. it must be
`buck2 build`able).

## `$(location_exec //path/to:target)`

Identical to `$(location //path/to:target)`, but the configuration is
transitioned to the execution platform (see the [page about
configuration](../concepts/configurations.md) for more information). This
can be useful when using `genrule` to wrap another build system with
buck.

The target being referenced must expose a `DefaultInfo` (i.e. it must be
`buck2 build`able).

## `$(source relative/path/to/source)`

Expands to the location of the specified source. The difference with using
`$(location path/to:export_file_target)` is that the path points to the file in
the source tree, rather than a copy or symlink in `buck-out`.

For example:

```python
cxx_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["main.cpp"],
    preprocessor_flags = ["-DMY_SOURCE_FILE=$(source path/to/my_source_file)"],
)
```

## `$(exe //path/to:target)`

Expands a build rule that results in an executable to the commands necessary to
run that executable as part of the build.

For example, a `java_binary()` might expand to a call to
`java -jar path/to/target.jar`. Files that are executable (perhaps generated by
a `genrule()`) are also expanded.

If the build rule does not generate an executable output, then an exception is
thrown and the build breaks.

If the `$(exe my_dependency)` dependency should actually be built with the
target platform, use `$(exe_target my_dependency)` instead, which will stick to
the same platform as the target.

The target being referenced must expose a `RunInfo` (i.e. it must be
`buck2 run`able).

## `$(exe_target //path/to:target)`

Identical to `$(exe //path/to:target)`, except that the target is built using
the target platform, rather than the execution platform (see the [page
about configuration](../concepts/configurations.md) for more information).

This is for example useful to get the paths to executables to be run as part of
tests. For example:

```python
sh_test(
    name = "my_test",
    args = [
        "$(exe_target //path/to:target_to_test)",
    ],
    # `my_test.sh` takes a single argument, which is the path to an executable
    # to test.
    test = "my_test.sh",
    visibility = ["//risk/tap_enricher/..."],
)
```

The target being referenced must expose a `RunInfo` (i.e. it must be
`buck2 run`able).

## `$(query_targets queryfunction(//path/to:target))`

Runs a query on the given target and replaces the macro with the matching
targets.

For example:

```python
my_rule(
    name = "example",
    # Will be replaced by all dependencies of `some_target`.
    foo = "$(query_targets deps(:some_target))"
)
```

## `$(query_outputs queryfunction(//path/to:target))`

Runs a query on the given target and replaces the macro with the outputs of the
matching targets.

For example:

```python
my_rule(
    name = "example",
    # Will be replaced by the outputs of all dependencies of `some_target`.
    foo = "$(query_outputs deps(:some_target))"
)
```

## `$(query_targets_and_outputs [separator] queryfunction(//path/to:target))`

Runs a query on the given target and replaces the macro with matching targets
and their outputs, which are separated by an optional `separator` (defaults to a
space).

For example:

```python
my_rule(
    name = "example",
    # Will be replaced by the space-separated dependencies of `some_target`, as
    # well as their outputs.
    foo = "$(query_targets_and_outputs deps(:some_target))"
)
```

## `$(classpath //path/to:target)`

Expands to the transitive classpath of the specified build rule, provided that
the rule has a Java classpath. If the rule does not have (or contribute to) a
classpath, then an exception is thrown and the build breaks. It takes an
optional second argument to limit the depth of the traversal, but only a depth
of 1 is currently supported. Its behavior is similar to the corresponding
operation in the `buck audit` command.

## `$(location //path/to:target[output])`

Expands to the named output file or directory of the given target, for rules
that expose supplementary outputs.

## How to manage long expanded values

In some cases, the results of the expanded macro might be so long that they
exceed a limit in your operating environment. For example, if you use the
results of an expanded macro in Bash, it could exceed Bash's command-line
limits.

To work around these limits, prefix the macro name with the `@` character. Buck
then writes the results of the expanded macro to a temporary file and replaces
the macro with the path to that file _while keeping the `@` prefix_. For
example:

```sh
$(@query_targets_and_outputs //...)
```

expands to something similar to:

```sh
@/tmp/tempfile
```

Many applications recognize the `@` prefix to mean: _read the contents of this
file to obtain the necessary arguments_.

## How to prevent expansion

If you need to prevent expansion of a string parameter macro, prefix the macro
with a backslash.

```sh
\$(dirname ...)
```

For example, the following rule passes the `dirname` command to the shell to
execute in a subshell; `dirname` is a Unix/Linux command-line utility that
returns the directory of a specified file. We need to use an escape because the
syntax for subshells is the same as the syntax for string parameter macros:

```python
genrule(
  name = 'gen',
  out  = 'out.txt',
  cmd  = 'cp $SRCS \$(dirname $OUT)',
  srcs = [
    'test1.txt',
    'test2.txt',
  ],
)
```

## Query functions

The `query_*` macros accept a quoted query expression which supports the
following query functions:

- `attrfilter`
- `attrregexfilter`
- `deps`
- `except` (set-difference)
- `filter`
- `intersect`
- `kind`
- `rdeps`
- `set`
- `union`

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

- **When are macros evaluated?** Macros are evaluated before the command is
  passed to the shell for execution. You can think of them as simple string
  replacements.
- **Can macros be nested?** Macros cannot be nested. If you need to run an
  additional macro on the output of a previous macro, create a nested `genrule`
  definition and use the `$(location)` macro to read the output of the previous
  macro.
- **Are parentheses okay inside a macro?** Inside a macro, parentheses must be
  balanced. Parentheses which are part of a quoted string are ignored.
- **Is white space okay inside a macro?** Macro arguments are white space
  separated, so arguments which contain white space must be quoted.
- **Are nested quotes allowed?** A single level of nested quotes is allowed,
  such as `"My name is 'Buck'."` or `'My name is "Buck".'`. Note that when you
  use a macro in a BUCK file, you must ensure that quotes are properly escaped,
  so that the shell command that uses the macro forms a proper string.

## Extended Backus-Naur form

The Extended Backus-Naur form (EBNF) grammar for a macro is as follows:

```python
macro = "$(", macro_name, whitespace, [arg_list], ")";
macro_name = {all_ascii_chars - whitespace - parens};
whitespace = "\t" | "\n" | " " | "\r";
parens = "(" | ")";
arg_list = arg | arg, whitespace, arg_list;
arg = {all_ascii_chars - whitespace - parens}
      | "(", arg, ")"
      | "\"", [{-"\""}], "\""
      | "'", [{-"'"}], "'";
```
